What are the important aspects
of shaping your data is
to consider the feature
space that your data covers?
Let's take a look.
So here's what we're
going to be talking about.
First of all just an introduction
to feature spaces and
then an introduction to
feature selection as well.
We'll talk about filter methods and
wrapper methods and embedded methods.
Those are methods of feature selection.
In this first section, we're really
just looking at feature spaces.
So what are feature spaces?
Well, a feature space is
defined by the n dimensional
space that your features defined.
So if you have two features,
a feature space is two dimensional.
If you have three features,
its three dimensional and so forth,
it does not include the target label.
So that we're just talking
about your features.
So if this is your feature factor,
you have future vector X.
And it has values from zero to D.
Here.
That's the dimensionality of that vector.
And that defines a space.
So in this case that's a three D space.
We have three features.
We have a 3D.
Space, or if we're looking at it in
a 2D space with with a two dimensional
feature vector, we could express it
as a scatter plot with a 2D space.
Those are fairly easy for
us as humans to imagine.
So looking at it a little differently.
Here's an example using features
that you might have for a house, so
the number of rooms for the house or
actually any kind of building
really the square footage of it
where it's located in a price.
So maybe we're trying to
figure out how sales.
So in this case,
the F is your model and it's acting
in your feature space and
it's going to produce a result Y,
looking at a classification situation or
problem we have again.
So this is going to be
a two dimensional space.
We have different distributions of
the examples within our feature space.
In an ideal case, they're easy separable,
ideally with a linear
function in a realistic case.
Well, maybe we can do that with
a linear function if we sort of fudge
around some of the some of
the examples and then we have,
poor examples where it's difficult
to do with a linear function.
We're working in a non linear
feature space and and,
maybe we can use a projection
to help with that.
Or maybe we just have to use
a non-linear model, but we're,
what we're going to try to do is draw
a boundary within that feature space.
So, here's a case where we're drawing,
maybe a parametric boundary.
But the model is going to try
to learn that decision boundary.
The boundary is used to
classify the data points.
So that's what our model is learning as a
result of knowing where that boundary is.
It can take an example
that is given to it and
decide in this case which
class it falls into.
So feature space coverage is important.
The examples that you give to your
data to your model rather to train and
for evaluation have to
be representative of
the examples that you're going to
see when you serve your model.
In other words, the requests that
are going to be given to your model and
where they fall in your feature space,
that region of your feature space has to
be covered when you train and
evaluate your model as well.
So that means the same numerical ranges
were for classes the same classes and
you need similar characteristics for
image data as well.
So it's not quite so, numerical but
it's still expressing a space and
similarly for vocabulary.
In this case we have syntax and semantics
that we have to consider as well for
natural language problems.
So we need to ensure that
we covered the same space.
If we're doing time series problem,
we need to consider seasonality trend and
drift.
And that includes for the serving data,
we may have new values that we
find in new labels that's going to
influence the concept drift as as
we've talked about previously,
so we need to be aware of that and
design processes to deal with that.
That means we need continuous monitoring,
which is going to be a key for
success in these situations.
Remember as we've talked about before,
the world changes and
our model only learns one
version of the world.
So when the world has changed, we need
to update our model to the new world.